The structure of Petty is based on C$50 Finance. We utilized the registration and login functions that we implemented for that project. However, we modified and improved on the original framework to fulfill the functions of Petty.

To begin with, we replaces “Buy” and “Sell” with “Diet” and “Exercise.” Similar to Finance, we made a database to keep track of each user’s nutrition intake and activity level, but the structure of the database is vastly different. Each user has a health level that we programmed to start off at 0 each day. Then, depending on the nutrient contents of the food that the user eats and the amount of time the user exercises, the health level changes.

For diet, we calculate the change in health level based on the diet’s calorie, fat, and sugar contents. We first calculate the ratio of calories over fat. The idea behind this is that caloric intake is beneficial when fat content is low, for the most part. Thus, we add this ratio to the health level. We then, however, subtract the sugar content since sugar consumption is generally discouraged, especially in unnatural forms. For physical activity, we add the duration of the workout (in minutes) to the health level. This way, the more time the user spends exercising, the higher his/her level of well-being.

We then translate the health level calculated into the pet’s well-being. When the health level is low (< 0), the index page displays a sad corgi to motivate the user to change eating and workout habits. At a good range of health level (0-100), the index page instead displays a neutral corgi telling the user that there’s still room for improvements. Finally, for users performing optimally at health levels above 100, the index page displays a happy corgi encouraging users to maintain their habits. If given an opportunity to further improve our project, we would like to better this aspect of it by creating a sprite that changes dynamically as the health level changes.

Our goal setting page first asks the user to input a target health level. Then, using the input, the page redirects to a map consisting of either low-intensity (i.e. yoga, barre, pilates) or high-intensity (i.e. HIIT, cycling) workouts. We use Google Maps’ API to create this function. It allows the us to redirect the user to a map based on their current location. The way we have it, the user would need to manually search up a specific type of exercise. However, as mentioned earlier, we would like to figure out a way to have a default value in the search box.

Our survey page currently has basic functions that we would like further develop. The idea is to give the user a score based on answers to the eight questions. Then, using the wellness, the page would redirect to maps similar to those in the goal page. These maps, however, would contain not only workout locations but also restaurants that fit the user’s lifestyle.